---
title: Text formatting guidelines
description: Learn when to use bold, italics, code, and other text styles in articles published on the docs.microsoft.com site.
author: tdykstra
ms.author: tdykstra
ms.date: 01/30/2020
ms.prod: non-product-specific
ms.topic: contributor-guide
ms.custom: external-contributor-guide
---

# Text formatting guidelines

Consistent and appropriate use of bold, italic, and code style for text elements improves
readability and helps avoid misunderstandings.

## Bold

Use bold for UI elements, such as menu selections, dialog box names, and input field names.

### Examples

* **This**: In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the project node, and then select **Add > New Item**.
* **Not this**: In Solution Explorer, right-click the project node, and then select Add > New Item.
* **Not this**: In *Solution Explorer*, right-click the project node, and then select *Add > New Item*.

## Italics

Use italics for:

* Introducing new terms along with a definition or explanation.
* File names, folder names, paths.
* User input.

### Examples

* **This**: In App Service, an app runs in an *App Service plan*. An App Service plan defines a set of compute resources for a web app to run on.
* **Not this**: In App Service, an app runs in an "App Service plan." An App Service plan defines a set of compute resources for a web app to run on.
* **This**: Replace the code in *HttpTriggerCSharp.cs* with the following code.
* **Not this**: Replace the code in `HttpTriggerCSharp.cs` with the following code.
* **This**: Enter *ContosoUniversity* for the **Name**, and then select **Add**.
* **Not this**: Enter "ContosoUniversity" for the **Name**, and then select **Add**.

## Code style

Use code style for:

* Code elements, such as method names, property names, and language keywords.
* SQL commands
* NuGet package names
* Command-line commands
* Database table and column names
* Resource names that should not be localized (such as virtual machine names)
* URLs that you don't want to be clickable

**Why?** Older style guides specify bold for many of these text elements. However, most articles are
localized, and code style tells the translator to leave that part of the text untranslated.

Code style can be *inline* (surrounded by \`) or *fenced* code blocks (surrounded by \`\`\`) that
span multiple lines. Put longer code snippets and paths in fenced code blocks.

### Examples using inline styles

* **This**: By default, the Entity Framework interprets a property that's named `Id` or `ClassnameID` as the primary key.
* **Not this**: By default, the Entity Framework interprets a property that's named *Id* or *ClassnameID* as the primary key.
* **This**: The `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore` package provides runtime support for EF Core.
* **Not this**: The *Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore* package provides runtime support for EF Core.

### Examples of fenced code blocks

* **This**: No commands are sent to the database by statements that just change an `IQueryable`, such as the following code:

  ```markdown
      ```csharp
      var students = context.Students.Where(s => s.LastName == "Davolio")
      ```
  ```

* **Not this**: No commands are sent to the database by statements that just change an **IQueryable**, such as **var students = context.Students.Where(s => s.LastName == "Davolio")**.

* **This**: For example, to run the `Get-ServiceLog.ps1` script in the `C:\Scripts` directory, type:

  ```markdown
      ```powershell
      C:\Scripts\Get-ServiceLog.ps1
      ```
  ```

* **Not this**: For example, to run the **Get-ServiceLog.ps1** script in the **C:\Scripts** directory, type: "C:\Scripts\Get-ServiceLog.ps1."

* **All** fenced code blocks must have an approved language tag. For a list of support language tags, see [How to include code in docs](./code-in-docs.md#supported-languages).

## Headings and link text

Don't apply an inline style such as italics, bold, or code to headings or hyperlink text.

**Why?**

People rely on standard hyperlink text to identify text elements as clickable links. Styling a link
as code, for example, can obscure the fact that the text is a link. Headings have their own styles
and mixing other styles in them looks bad.

### Examples

* **This**: The *function.json* file is generated by the NuGet package [Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Functions](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Functions).
* **Not this**: The *function.json* file is generated by the NuGet package [`Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Functions`](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Functions).

* **This**:

  ```markdown
  ### The Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Functions package
  ```

* **Not this**:

  ```markdown
  ### The `Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Functions` package
  ```

## Keys and keyboard shortcuts

When referring to keys or key combinations, follow these conventions:

* Capitalize the first letter of key names.
* Don't apply an inline style such as italics, bold, or code.
* Use "+" to join keys that are pressed at the same time.

### Examples

* **This**: Select Alt+Ctrl+S.
* **Not this**: Press **ALT+CTRL+S**.
* **Not this**: Hit `ALT+CTRL+S`.

For more information, see [Describing interactions with UI](https://styleguides.azurewebsites.net/StyleGuide/Read?id=2700&topicid=26472).

## Exceptions

Style guidelines aren't rigid rules. In contexts where they harm readability, do something
different. For example, an HTML table with mostly code elements might look too busy with code
styling everywhere. You might choose bold styling in that context.

If you choose an alternate text style where code is normally called for, make sure it's okay for the text
to be translated in localized versions of the article. Code is the only style that automatically
prevents translation. For scenarios where you want to prevent localization without using code style, see [Non-localized strings](/help/contribute/markdown-reference#non-localized-strings).
